---
title: 'MY ENGAGEMENT AND WEDDING STORY'
date: '2022-01-09'
---

**October 30th, 2020** is a very special day of my life. I insisted to choose this
day as my _engagement day_ because it is my _fiancé's birthday_. It was a completely traditional **Hindu Bengali Engagement Program**. The ritual is known as _“Aashirbaad”_ which means _“Blessing”_ as two people who love each other get engaged with the blessings of their dear ones.

The day started with me getting ready for the function. I wore my mother’s beautiful wedding outfit – a _magenta-colored sari_ on my engagement. It was a long-cherished dream of mine to wear her special attire on my special day and finally, it came true. My best friend was the one to do my makeover and she did a fantastic job. I was feeling absolutely delighted and was having butterflies in my stomach at the same time. With that amazing mixture of a lot of feelings, I with my family and friends headed towards the venue.  
The first thing that I noticed when I reached the venue was my fiancé waiting for me in the hallway, wearing our traditional attire _kurta-pajama_. The venue was full of euphoria as both of our family members were present to wish us a happy life ahead. 
The rituals began as we exchanged rings. We were so much into each other and enjoying those moments that we did not even notice when the photographers started taking our photos. When we finally realized that we were being captured, both of us felt shy as everyone was looking at us. Although my fiancé is a bit camera-shy person, our pictures came out pretty awesome. We clicked photos with our families and friends too. Being an introverted guy, my fiancé never wanted to celebrate his birthday but I planned to give him a surprise with a heart-shaped cake. I was glad to see the smile on his face when he saw the cake! He also did something special for me. He got down on his knee and proposed to me with a bouquet of roses, it was dreamy, just like a movie scene. We had a small coffee date in the evening, with happiness and contentment of being together, dreaming of a new life ahead.

From the day when I got engaged to the day I got married was the most happening period in my life till now. Planning the wedding, that too during a pandemic was a really tough job. The first thing that I had to keep in my mind was how I can arrange my dream wedding, keeping everyone safe. As I got engaged in October and my **wedding** was fixed to be held in **November 20th**, I had only 20 days to do all the arrangements, a very little time I must say. I always wanted to have a perfect traditional wedding which includes four programs – _Haldi_, _Mehndi & Sangeet_, _Wedding_ and _Reception_. Choosing themes and decorations for all four programs, matching outfits for me and my fiancé, choosing the food menu, selecting invitation cards, shopping and taking care of every little detail - it really was not an easy work. But the best part was, my fiancé was there for me throughout the time, helping me organizing everything according to the plan. We planned how will we decorate our stage, we went shopping together, selected our wedding invitation cards. One of the best moments was when I saw our names together, printed on the card. I felt like our names got connected for the entire life. 
In our **Bengali culture**, the wedding attire of the bride and groom is gifted by the bride’s family and the outfits for the reception are gifted by the groom’s family. Going shopping with my parents to select our wedding outfits was one of my most favorite parts of wedding planning. This was the day when my fiancé was not present with me and I was simply blushing while imagining how he would react, seeing me wearing that beautiful traditional _Red Kanchipuram Sari_! There was that day when I went shopping with my in-laws and that was also a memorable day for me as I was getting all the affection and attention of my parents-in-law. As my wedding day was coming near, I was getting goosebumps thinking how dramatic and filmy my wedding will be, just like I have always dreamt of.

As I said, my wedding took place during the COVID-19 pandemic, executing plans was not that easy. I had to constantly check on safety measures during the whole time. The worst part was, not having my grandparents and my maternal aunt with me on my wedding as they live abroad and because of the pandemic situation, they were unable to attend the program. Well, that was a lot for me to process because never had I ever imagined getting married in absence of the three most important persons of my life. I was feeling emotional and sad every time I was planning something new. Though I was connected to them and sharing every detail over social media and skype, it was difficult for me not to have them in person on such a special occasion of my life. But that’s how life is, sometimes really unfair!
I had to plan four programs but got venues for only two – wedding and reception. I had few choices of venue for the wedding but didn’t get any of those as all of those were closed due to Government safety measures for COVID-19. Finally, we chose two venues, not as per my expectation but pretty good ones. Here came another terrible part which was to keep a lot of close people out of the invitation list as we had a limitation of keeping the guest count low, because of the pandemic. Sorting out this problem was really tough but we tried our best to not upset anyone. For the other two programs – I had to organize those in my own house. Accommodating so many people, that too keeping their safety in mind was frustrating for me and my family. Despite of all these odds, we managed to plan everything successfully and arranged safety measures like masks and sanitizers for all the guests.

Bengali Hindu weddings traditionally involve many intricate ceremonies and it is a matter of multiple days. The two pre-wedding ceremonies in my wedding were the _Mehndi-Sangeet_ and the _Haldi_ program. My mehndi & sangeet function was arranged at my home. I was all dolled-up, wrapped in a yellow sari for the mehndi ceremony and my best friend painted my hands and feet with her gorgeous bridal henna designs. The ceremony continued till late night and the guests were singing and dancing, having fun, which made my Sangeet ceremony extremely delightful. The special part was my fiancé being the photographer and he was taking candid pictures of those moments. I couldn’t sleep the whole night and in a blink of an eye, the night passed.  

As soon as the sun rose, I had to get ready for my “Haldi” ritual in which Haldi (Turmeric), oil and water are mixed and the paste is applied on both the bride and groom by the family members. My family members applied Haldi on me and wished me a happy married life ahead. As soon as the ceremony ended, I headed to the beauty salon for my makeover. While having my make-over I felt very nervous and excited to think how will be my final look and to my utter surprise, I got the exact look that I had imagined for myself. With that contentment, I with my parents and bridesmaids reached the venue.  

The first thing that I noticed was the stage, known as “Mandap”, beautifully decorated with colorful flowers. I started waiting for my groom eagerly. Finally, putting an end to my patience, the groom arrived with the guests from his side which we call “Borjatri” and my mother and other family members welcomed them cordially. Traditionally, the bride cannot be a part of it so I was secretly observing everything from afar. Soon, the “Purohit”, who conducts the marriage started saying holy words sitting in front of the holy fire which is believed to be the messenger to the Hindu deities. My sisters and friends then took me to the Mandap and I was covering my eyes by holding betel leaves in my hands. I took “Saat Phere” by walking seven times around the groom and then uncovered my eyes to finally see his face, this ritual was my most favorite one. He had a smile and peace on his face which melted my heart. We took vows and walked around the holy fire together, praying for a life-long happy relationship. I started to feel emotional as my father started crying while doing the ritual “Kanyadan”. The ceremony ended with my husband putting “Sindoor” on my forehead which is a symbol of a woman being married as per Hindu tradition. With a smile on his face, my husband took me to his arms and walked to the stage where the photographers captured our photos with our families. What a surreal feeling it was to be married to my love.

Wedding is a beautiful ritual that binds not only two souls but also two families with great responsibilities and happiness. The engagement ceremony, the phase of wedding planning, the pre-wedding rituals, and finally the most-anticipated day, “The Wedding Day”, each of these has its beauty and aura. Whether it be a traditional wedding including multiple functions or just a small reception program, it requires a lot of small details to be taken care of. You need to be careful about the facts and also the emotion of the family members. It is like a “thousand people, thousand opinions” type situation which seems very annoying at some points. But you’ll be successful if you act according to your plan and make sure that your parents are happy about those plans. If parents are happy, nothing else actually matters.

At my wedding, I tried my best to fulfill my wishes and made my husband a part of every single decision. There were obstacles due to the pandemic situation but our parents were always helpful and their support gave me the courage to pull off all the plans beautifully. The only thing that I regret is not being able to make my grandparents and my aunt a part of my most special occasion. If I ever get a chance, I will surely arrange my wedding and marry my husband once again in their presence. Apart from this one issue, my wedding was just like a wedding that we watch in movies. It was dramatic and full of joy along with some constraints. It was a memorable journey, from the engagement to the wedding day.

The only thing that I can say to the newly engaged couples is that gather as much as memory possible, communicate with your partner and your parents, plan with them, make those work out as these are the most precious memories that you’re going to cherish forever.
